
KRoC -- Source Distribution
===========================


Prerequisites
-------------

To compile and use KRoC, you will need to have the following already
installed on your machine:

 - the bash shell

 - the GNU toolchain -- i.e. GCC 2.95.2 or later, binutils 2.0 or later,
   GNU awk, GNU make

 - the C development headers

 - Python 2.2 or later

 - xsltproc

Some occam-pi modules can optionally make use of other libraries if
available, such as SDL and OpenGL.

On Debian-based systems, we suggest installing the following packages:

  bash gcc binutils gawk make libc6-dev libsdl1.2-dev
  libsdl-sound1.2-dev libgl1-mesa-dev python xsltproc


Installation
------------

To install the source distribution, unpack the tar archive, cd to the
directory that unpacking it produced, and run the "./build" script.
The script will configure, compile and install all the parts of the KRoC
distribution. Calling the script with the "--help" option will bring up a
list of available options.

We recommend that you install KRoC into a directory outside the source
directory. This can be specified using the "--prefix <directory>" option
to the build script. The first time the script is run, it will prompt
for this (with a directory inside the source-tree as the default
installation directory); to enter the interactive configuration mode
again, use "./build --reconf".

Once you have installed KRoC, you can clean out the source tree using
"./build clean", or even remove it entirely.


Configuration
-------------

Before using KRoC, remember to source the relevant setup file:

  - ". PREFIX/bin/setup.sh" for Bourne-style shells such as bash

  - "source PREFIX/bin/setup.csh" for C-style shells such as csh/tcsh

It may be convenient to include this command in your shell's startup
file (e.g. "~/.bash_profile", "~/.cshrc", or "/etc/profile").


Directories
-----------

  demos/

    Some standalone demo programs written in occam-pi.

  doc/

    Various items of documentation. The "essentially-kroc.txt" file is a
    good place to start.

  install/

    This is the default installation directory for KRoC.

  modules/

    Reusable modules that can be used in occam-pi programs. Each module
    contains a "libsrc" directory with the module's source code, and an
    "examples" directory with demonstration and test programs.

    The "modules/course" directory will probably be of particular
    interest, since it contains the examples and exercises used to teach
    occam-pi at the University of Kent.

  runtime/

    Low-level runtime support code for the occam-pi environment.

  tests/

    Functional test programs for occam-pi systems.

  tools/

    Tools for compiling, debugging, packaging and documenting occam-pi
    programs.

Note: most directories contain further README files.


Licensing
---------

KRoC is free software. In general, tools are made available under the
GNU General Public License (v2 or later), and libraries are made
available under the GNU Lesser General Public License (v2 or later).
Information about the GNU licenses can be found at:

	http://www.fsf.org/licensing/


Reporting problems
------------------

Known bugs are given in the top-level BUGS file. If KRoC fails to
compile or work correctly on your system, please mail our bug tracking
system at <kroc-bugs@kent.ac.uk>, including a brief description of the
problem and a copy of the "typescript" file generated by "build".

